in the last few videos we've seen how we
can use a really clever set of recursive
class definitions to build an infinitely
extensible list so for example the S
list with s lists we can do add last
over and over and over until we get
bored of it or I guess our computer runs
out of memory but as a theoretical
construct the S list can grow forever
now in this next set of videos what
we're gonna do is ultimately build an a
list an array based list that uses a
totally orthogonal way of storing
information in particular it will use
arrays rather than a recursive list
structure so let's start by just
thinking back about how memory works so
in general if we need to build a list if
we want to say have a list of a million
items we need a million memory boxes
we've talked about different ways that
you can get memory boxes in Java one of
them is to declare a variable so for
example if I say index Java goes gets me
32 bits of memory sets them aside as a
little box for us and then we can store
integers in that box if we say walrus w1
that gives us a memory box of 64 bits
they can store the location of a walrus
and if we say walrus w2 equals new
walrus in this case a bunch of different
stuff happens but ultimately what
happens is that we get 32 bits to store
the size of the waters 64 bits for the
tusks size and we also get 64 bits over
here to store it the reference to this
walrus so these are all different ways
of getting memory boxes we've taken
advantage of advantage of this idea here
in order to build s lists or D lists and
so we're going to do next is use arrays
so what are arrays really I mean you've
used them in homework 0 and in project 0
above the most crisp way of thinking
about an array is to think of it as a
numbered sequence of memory boxes so
just like a class as a named set of
memory boxes a race will be a numbered
sequence and what I mean by a named set
is for example walrus it has a size
which you access using dot notation Walt
W dot size or W tusk size with arrays we
use this bracket notation so if I want
the third item of the array that's
called a let's say we'll do a bracket 3
so in a sense they have a lot of
similarities with classes
now if we want to really be very
specific about what an array is it's not
just that sequence memory boxes but it
will also have a length so in terms of
what you can do with it in Java you can
ask it for its length or you can get
these sequence in memory boxes now an
important thing is that the number of
memory boxes is always going to match
that length I mean that make sense and
we also are going to have a very special
rule which is that all the boxes have to
be the same type and that's unlike other
languages like Python where the built-in
list type can include different things
of different types in Java all of those
boxes must be the same type and thus the
same number of bits and is that's an
aside those boxes will always be
numbered from 0 to length minus 1 now
just like a class I'll make a note that
whenever you instantiate an array what
will happen is you get one reference at
the time that's created and if it is the
case that you throw away your only
reference to that array just like any
old regular object you will or any class
instance and you will never be able to
get it back the garbage collector will
eat it up and that's it now unlike
classes arrays will never have methods
they're just gonna be data that's gonna
be a length in a sequence of numbered
memory boxes